Okay so it's time to set up your computer and install the necessary software for this course.
In this lesson I will show you how to install Python and configure your local environment so that way
we don't have to rely on the trial environment on Jupiter dot org.
I will show you how to install Python Anaconda on a Windows machine.
So if you've got a Mac skip to the next video.
But before we begin let me explain what Python Anaconda is and why we're downloading it.
Anaconda is a python distribution.
And this means that Anaconda aims to provide everything you need for data science in one place.
It's essentially a bundle of software and code that makes it easy for getting set up for Data Science
and machine learning.
For example the anaconda bundle already includes the Jupiter notebook so you don't have to separately
download it and install it and it also includes tons and tons of Python packages and libraries that
we'll be using in this course.
What do I mean by libraries.
Well remember how we wrote import pandas or import Mac plot lib or import psychic learn in our first
project.
Usually you'd have to download all these packages one by one before you can use them in your project.
But by downloading Anaconda we're going to be getting all these packages in one go that way we don't
have to worry about setup and configuration.
Later on in the course one word of warning though.
If you Google the word Anaconda you're probably not gonna get what you're looking for.
You'll want to search Anaconda Python to find the Continuum dot Io Web site or alternatively click on
the link in the lessons resources to be directed directly to the download page.
Now don't click the download button just yet.
First you have to do a very important check on your machine your laptop or your desktop computer will
come in one of two flavors.
You will either have a 64 bit machine or a 32 bit machine.
And here's how you check which flavor of computer you've got.
You can go to your control panel and there under a system type you should see whether you've got a 32
bit operating system or a 64 bit operating system.
So with that in mind make a note of the type of processor and go back to the download page on continuum
that Io here you should see a big green download button click on that big green download button.
Only if you've got a 64 bit processor if you've got a 32 bit machine click on the link below.
The thing about Python is it also comes in two flavors.
We're going to go with the newer version of Python Python 3.
So while Anaconda is downloading this is a good time to go for a coffee or tea after the download completes.
You can start the installation.
We're gonna be presented with one of those standard setup Wizard's so we're going to click next.
Then when I agreed to the license agreement for probably signing away our first born child at this point.
But on the next parts of the Wizard I'm just gonna go with the recommended options so I'm gonna say
install for just myself and for the destination folder I'm also going to stick with the default for
the advanced options.
I'm going to leave them as they are in the installer as well with the first one untucked and the second
one ticked now.
My computer actually isn't as fast as it appears to be because I'm speeding up the video here but this
installation process actually takes a little while too.
So just be patient and after the installer finishes it's going to click finish.
Now it's time to fire up Anaconda and the Jupiter notebook just to see if everything's working click
on your start menu and then go find the anaconda command prompt you should see a little black window
like this appear and in this window type Python space dash dash version and here you should see the
version of Python that you've installed.
And as we've mentioned before.
Make sure the version of Python is three point six or higher.
Now it's very useful to have the anaconda command prompt handy so in your taskbar at the bottom right
click and pin this program to the taskbar.
That way you can fire up the anaconda prompt very quickly.
Next let me show you how to start up your own Jupiter notebook.
You can do that by simply typing Jupiter.
Space notebook and hit enter.
Now give it a minute and you should see your browser firing up with the folder structure on your C drive.
And when you click on new you should be able to start a new Python 3 notebook so congratulations on
getting that working.
But starting up is only part of the equation.
Also have to be able to shut this down properly and to shut down open notebook go to file close and
halt and you can log out and close your browser window.
But the important part is actually to terminate the notebook from the anaconda command prompt and you
need to do this with a keyboard shortcut.
You can see here in the instructions it says use control C to stop the server and shut down all kernels
twice to skip confirmation so on your keyboard press controls see twice you should then see the messages
interrupted shutting down kernels and that's how you close out of Jupiter completely.
Finally let me show you all the components that were installed along side with Anaconda and to do that.
Let me show you the anaconda navigator.
This is also an alternative way of firing up the Jupiter notebook instead of going through the anaconda
prompt after it finishes loading.
You should see a window like this from here.
We can launch the Jupiter notebook or the spider Python I.T. or even our studio.
So congratulations on getting set up.
If you have any problems or had any issues ask in the Q and A section for this lesson I'll see you in
the next videos.